+++
title = "Using jQuery validation plugin with fields in a jQuery UI .dialog()"
date = 2014-05-21T16:43:00Z
updated = 2014-05-27T21:35:02Z
tags = ["ASP.NET", "Validation", "jQuery"]
blogimport = true 
[author]
	name = "Matt Wanchap"
	uri = "https://www.blogger.com/profile/16465307324394182190"
+++

One issue I ran into while using the&nbsp;<a href="http://jqueryui.com/">jQuery UI</a> library along with the&nbsp;<a href="http://jqueryvalidation.org/">jQuery validation</a> plugin in an ASP.NET page is that when the dialog is created, it's moved outside of the page's main form. &nbsp;jQuery validation requires all fields to be validated to be inside a form, so fields in the dialog won't validate, plus if you need to have server-side controls inside of that dialog, there's not a lot you can do to move the dialog or the form. (If you don't have any server-side controls in the form, read skip further down for an alternate solution) Nested forms aren't allowed, and ASP.NET throws an error if you put server-side controls outside the main form. &nbsp;An easy (albeit hacky) solution I found was just to move the dialog and its overlay back inside the form tag after creation:<br /><br /><code>$("#yourDialog").dialog({<br />&nbsp; &nbsp; open: function (event, ui) {<br />&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; $(".ui-widget-overlay").prependTo("form"); //moves the overlay<br />&nbsp; &nbsp; }<br />}).parent().appendTo("form"); //moves the rest of the dialog</code><br /><br />Obviously this is highly dependant on the the "ui-widget-overlay" class name in particular, which could change in future releases of jQuery UI so don't just go copy/pasting this example in a few years and telling me it doesn't work. &nbsp;This also assumes you don't have any other things to validate outside of the dialog, otherwise you're going to have to use a different solution.<br /><h3><span style="font-weight: normal;">Alternate solution:</span></h3>As mentioned above, this only works if you don't have any server-side controls inside the dialog. &nbsp;It's pretty obvious in retrospect so I was debating even mentioning it, but I was confused about this at first so perhaps I can help save someone else a little time! &nbsp;This issue arose because I needed to add another dialog, and of course putting them both inside the same form made them trigger validation events on both dialogs together, so nothing was ever valid!<br /><br />Solution: move all dialogs outside of the main form tag, and add a form tags inside of each dialog. Validate each form separately, then post the information to a webmethod using AJAX. &nbsp;That's it!
